## URL Shortener

This is a simple URL shortener implemented in Go. It allows users to shorten long URLs into shorter, more manageable ones.

### Features

- **Shortening URLs:** Users can submit a long URL, and the system will generate a shortened URL for them.
- **Redirection:** Shortened URLs are redirected to their original long URLs when accessed.
- **Rate Limiting:** To prevent abuse, the system includes a rate limiter that limits the number of redirects per second.

### How to Use

1. **Shortening a URL:**
   - Visit the main page of the URL shortener.
   - Enter the long URL that you want to shorten into the provided input field.
   - Click on the "Shorten" button.
   - A shortened URL will be generated, which you can use to access the original long URL.

2. **Accessing a Shortened URL:**
   - Use the shortened URL generated by the system to access the original long URL.
   - The system will automatically redirect you to the original URL.

### Rate Limiting

The system includes a rate limiter to prevent abuse. It limits the number of redirects per second to ensure fair usage of the service.

### Implementation Details

- **URL Shortening:** When a user submits a long URL, the system generates a unique shortened key for it and stores the mapping in memory.
- **Redirection:** When a shortened URL is accessed, the system retrieves the original URL from memory and redirects the user to it.
- **Rate Limiter:** The system includes a rate limiter that limits the number of redirects per second. This prevents abuse and ensures fair usage of the service.

### Dependencies

- **Go Standard Library:** The system utilizes the standard libraries provided by Go, including `fmt`, `math/rand`, `net/http`, `strings`, `sync`, and `time`.

### Usage

To run the URL shortener, execute the following command in your terminal:

```bash
go run main.go
```

The URL shortener will start running on port `8080`. You can access it by visiting `http://localhost:8080` in your web browser.

### Contributors

- [Your Name](https://github.com/Otakcoder07) - Shamith Chandra

